Targets and Measures: Challenges associated with reporting low sea lice levels on Atlantic salmon farms
 
A popular framing of Goodhart’s Law states, “When a measure become a target, it ceases to be a good measure”. The extent to which this may be the case in the reporting of sea lice infestations on salmon farms is explored here. Due to the importance of controlling sea lice infestations on salmon farms, monitoring programmes are active in most salmon producing regions and in many a maximum allowable level is specified. This study investigates the extent to which the framing of these programmes and in particular the specification of very low threshold levels (the “targets” of our title) may be affecting the veracity of the reported sea lice infestation data. Publicly accessible data from Norway and BC, Canada are used to explore this question. In BC, where the threshold level is set to 3 motile Lepeophtheirus salmonis there is little evidence of anomalous patterns in the data and the overall proportion of females within the adult sea lice population is around 0.43. In contrast, in Norway where much lower sea lice limits are in place (at either 0.5 or 0.2 adult female L. salmonis) there is evidence of unexpected and sharp reductions in the levels of adult females reported around these threshold values. In addition, the average proportion of females is estimated to be only around 0.20 of the total adult L. salmonis population. These unexpected observations in the data were much more evident for farms in the southern areas of Norway and over the most recent years. These analyses appear to support the case that the measurement of sea lice on salmon farms can be significantly influenced by targets (particularly those which are highly demanding), and that as such, researchers and fish health professionals should be aware of potential biases within these data. In addition, regulators should carefully consider the unintended consequences of setting certain sea lice thresholds and the ways in which the potential to effectively review data quality and accuracy may be impacted by the choice of sea lice stage(s) that are reported.
